trying out hierarchical sheets with global labels and stuff, started with power labels
when making pin labels, adding them to the main sheet caused problems with ordering, as the sheet pin updater would add them in a random order. I resolved this by using the place pins from sheet function.

Next, i organized the GPIO pins, crystals, SPI flash, JTAG flash, and UART flash pins.

The crystals i then put into a hierarchical sub-sheet and then connected back to the MCU.

Initially with the JTAG and UART flash headers, i forgot to account for the fact that both of these protocols require common ground and reference voltage. I then made the mistake of not using the correct pin for voltage, which should have been VDD_RTC for JTAG and VDD_CPU for UART.

Next, I moved onto the memory. Initially, I thought i was going to use some sort of OSPI flash, but i quickly realized that there were no SOIC-18 packages for OSPI, and the rest were all BGA which I was not going to solder. I eventually settled on the SOIC-8 PSRAM64-H and used that as my PSRAM memory. This IC only had 8 pins, so i didnt need to use the addition GPIO33-38 pins needed for OSPI PSRAM.

After that, I added another hierarchical sheet for the USB-C receptacle, and used a full-featured 16p with aux pins, but ended up putting no connects on them anyways, though i might tie them to a GPIO pin later on.

Next, i went back to the GPIO pins, and clustered up GPIO pins into sets of 4 with a voltage and ground reference pin for each "cluster". I copied these across 4 hierarchical sheets under the GPIO cluster page, and then reconnected all the clusters back to the respective GPIO pins, all with a unified VDD_GPIO pin for the hierarchical sheet.

Following that, I then redid all the decoupling capacitors for the 5 power pins, VDD3P3, VDD3P3_RTC, VDD_SPI, VDD3P3_CPU, and VDDA, with all their descriptions written as notes next to their global labels. In configuring their noise suppression circuits, I got confused and thought VDDA was a separate pin, whereas VDDA was actually an internal pin connected to VDD3P3 inside the SoC. I was then trying to separately route a VDDA decoupling circuit, but realized that i could just tie it to VDD3P3, since it was shorted internally, and pins 2 and 3 were just 2 VDD3P3 pins.

I then laid the decoupling/bulk capacitors on the VDD3P3 rail, giving 10u for bulk from +3V3, 100n and 1n for VDD3P3/VDDA, 100n for VDD3P3_RTC, 1u bulk and 100n decoupling for VDD_SPI, 10 bulk, and 100n for VDD3P3_CPU.

Then, i moved over to the power delivery system. Originally, i was going to use the TPS562206, but realized the buck converter really wasnt going to do anything for load balancing, so I decided to just go with 5V to AP2112K. I put the appropriate bulk/decoupling capacitors on it and connected it to VBUS.

I organized the GPIO pins yet again, and this time, i went into each cluster and gave each VREF pin its separate decoupling and bulk capacitors as well as a filter ferrite bead for the VDD_GPIO line, which comes off the main +3V3 line to serve as power for the GPIO pins. However, when inspecting the GPIO hierarchical sheet, I noticed that the hierarchical subsheet containing the header pins was not actually tied correctly to the hierarchical reference in the GPIO sheet. I fixed this and re-established all cGPIO pins (cluster gpio) 1-4 to their respective hierarchical pins out back to the root schematic. I also fixed the cVDD pins. Before continuing with my design, I realized that the singular ferrite bead did nothing to isolate GPIO pins from each other, so I went back and fixed that in all the clusters, providing a 220@100MHz ferrite bead for each cVDD line. I was originally going to put series resistors on all the GPIO lines as current protection for GPIO, but i honestly trust myself not to be touching random gpios together while its on.

The last 2 headers to be put into hierarchical sheets, JTAG and UART, were finally organized and connected to the ESP32-S3 MCU symbol. I edited the pin configurations of both the headers to accurately reflect the master/slave peripheral relationship for the JTAG and UART bus.

After all this time, I had neglected the USB-C receptacle, and I had almost forgotten to put ESD protection on it. It was a quick job, just putting the USB-LC6-2P6 diode array on the D+ D- lines, and a TVS0500DRV on the VBUS lines. Originally, I was going to use the TVS1400DRV on the VBUS line because i almost forgot that I was using the AP2112K instead of the NCP1117 that I usually use for most of my PCBs. The NCP1117 can accept up to 20V, which would make the TVS1400DRV a sensible choice, however the AP2112K only has a 6V maximum input voltage, so that requires me to use a flat clamp with a lower clamp voltage. Technically, the TVS0500DRV has a clamp voltage of 9.2V, and this still runs the risk of destroying my LDO, but ill probably figure something out to make sure that doesnt happen.

When inspecting my +3V3 rail in the net navigator, I thought i had a problem when the +3V3 rail was split into two halves, the VDD3P3 rail, and the VDD3P3_CPU rail. It turned out that since I had filtered the +3V3 through a ferrite bead into VDD3P3, and VDD3P_CPU was unfiltered (for reasons i will get into later), it split the net of everything past the ferrite bead (that being the VDD3P3/VDDA pins). I intentionally chose not to filter the VDD3P3_CPU pin because of the potential ESR problems that i could face with a ferrite bead being in between VDD3P3_CPU and +3V3, as it could cause voltage to drop dangerously low and cause a brown-out.

Going back to the matter of voltage protection, i built off my previous realization that the clamp voltage of the TVS0500DRV would destroy my LDO. Because of this, I had a polyfuse put in place between VBUS and the LDO, however I now needed to find a proper OVP IC, otherwise my LDO would still fry because the polyfuse would take time to trip, even if it were a huge voltage spike that just blew up the entire fuse, since the TVS would still receive a little bit of current, (and in the worst case, probably be arced to, but at that point the whole board might as well have just been struck by lightning) and clamp down to an undesirable voltage for the LDO. I then found the TPS25923, an OVP eFuse IC that I somehow didnt come across the first time around. It had an ILIM programmable OVLO latch-off that had a maximum input voltage of 20V, which means I can use a TVS diode to do the initial clamp within the operating range of the TPS25923, but anything beyond that (my main concern being continuous voltage) must be severed with a fuse. I already accounted for PD negotiation errors by pulling down CC1 and CC2 with 5.1k resistors. Even if PD negotiation somehow manages to get 20V, i have a F-type fuse that will successfully sever the connection betewen VBUS and the TVS diode, successfully protecting both the TVS diode and the OVP.

The TPS25923x comes in 2 variants, the TPS259230 and the TPS259231. The TPS259231 has an auto-retry feature, where if the eFuse trips, it will automatically reset and retry the connection. This is unsafe, because in the event of a continuous load above safe thresholds, the TPS259231 will burn itself out from re-attempting connection through load. The TPS259230 however, is a latch-off eFuse, meaning it requires an EN pin re-cycle in order to allow load again. This is much safer, and when combined with an F-type fuse can effectively protect this PCB from damage, with the worst case being a change of fuse.

Another note on protection: the USBLC6-2 low-capacitance protection IC for USB-C D+ D- originally had a pull-up to unprotected VBUS. This was probably a huge mistake, and since i already have a dedicated TVS diode, i put it after both that and the OVP.

In regards to memory management, since im using the ESP32-S3 base MCU without any integrated PSRAM or FLASH memory, i can assign both SPICS0 and SPICS1 (chipselect for SPI bus 0 and 1) to their respective external memory modules instead of being limited by having the existing SPICS0 bus being taken up by internal FLASH. Everything else on the SPI line can just be shared, and since its not OSPI, i still dont have to use the extra GPIOs. Also, speaking of GPIOs, i replaced the GPIO cluster VDD pins with a +3V3 netlabel because it was filtered with ferrite bead anyways, and i wanted to keep everything within hierarchical sheets. I think i overdid it but its wtv.

When searching for footprints to assign to my parts, I realized that the crystal oscillators I was using were actually 4-pin oscillator modules, not a resonator, which is a 2-pin passive component. This makes a significant difference because had I put load capacitors on the 4-pin oscillator, it would distort the digital CMOS output (which is a square wave iirc) and cause issues with rise timing. This is different from a TCXO, as a TCXO outputs a clipped sine wave, which does require load caps to filter the biased AC signal of DC offset.(in the bias direction from which the VDD pin is coming from)

The antenna CLC pi filter matching to very long to figure out, but luckily i came across this tool https://onlinesmithchart.com/ that allowed me to better visualize impedance match, VSWR, and Q factor. The most difficult part of this was finding E12 series components that came together to properly match to 50 ohms. I eventually came to the values of 1.8 pF, 2.7 nH, and 1.8 pF again, which worked out as a pretty good pi filter accounting for tolerances, and it resulted in a VSWR max of about 1.4 and max Q factor of about 0.3 at the edges of the 2.4 GHz band. Of course, better tuning can be achieved, but this the current configuration saves on cost and prevents potential stocking issues with e24 and above value resistors.

Some small fixes in the schematic: set VDD_SPI permanently high because BOM for memory is confirmed, +3V3. Memory flash and PSRAM now connected with 0 ohm resistors.

Started the PCB: began with the memory route, struggled with getting the proper pins in the correct places. I tried a bunch of methods, many of which were more complicated by the recommendation of adding 0 ohm resistors. Then, I routed the power delivery pins. I dont really know what to say for this the work is in the lapse.
